---
layout: post
title: GRASS 6.4.2 - new pkgrel 2
author: Emiliano Vavassori
authref: http://syntaxerrormmm.is-a-geek.net
category: blog
tags:
    - grass
---
Today [lantald](https://aur.archlinux.org/account.php?Action=AccountInfo&ID=27729) reported on the [AUR GRASS page](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=54895) that he cannot link QGIS against GRASS anymore after the first update.

The following discussion really highlighted the root cause of the issue (missing
symlink `/opt/grass`, which should point to `/opt/grass-6.4.2`), but managed to
fix the issue in the wrong way.

The proposed workaround was to restore the symlink inside the `package()`
function of the PKGBUILD; this is a wrong solution because the symlink was
made against an absolute path containing `${pkgdir}`, which is going to work
in that moment but it should not work once the package is installed (I'm
wondering why it *does* work indeed).

Anyways, the real solution is to fix the symlink where it is created:
inside the `post_install()` of the `grass.install` file. I've re-read the
[documentation](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/PKGBUILD#install) for
`install` file (I recommend you do it also) and checked out
`/usr/share/pacman/proto.install`, then fixed the .install file (extending
also the functionality).

This should now be fixed in pkgrel 2.

Pkgrel 2 also fixes another problem: building i686 packages in chroot didn't
work for me, I had some errors building nviz. I added another dependency to
the PKGBUILD (specifically, `libxmu`) which was involved in the 3D stuff nviz
does and *voilà*, the package is built.

So we also have binary packages to test, yay `:)`

And by the way, I was forgetting: please greet Leonardo Hardtke as a new
member of the ArchLinuxGIS development team.
